what better way to start this is my son
Charlie he's 11 years old and he's an
hysterical quirky kid he loves life and
he proudly marches to the beat of his
own drum
he loves Kobe Bryant and dr. Dre as much
as he loves writing risque mad libs were
preparing brisket paninis on his own
George Foreman grill
however when Charlie was
three-and-a-half years old the dart fell
from the sky landed on my family and
broke it into more pieces that could
ever be imagined so many pieces in fact
that life as we knew it was over you see
my son Charlie was diagnosed with
Duchenne muscular dystrophy the most
common and the most aggressive form of
Duchenne muscular dystrophy
it's an infamous disease in that it's
the number one genetic killer in the
world of children children that suffer
from Duchenne muscular dystrophy are
missing a protein in their body called
the strokin which is the largest protein
in the body and it's essential for
muscle strength and function an analogy
that I often use is it's like the steel
cables of a suspension bridge without
the steel cables the bridge is unable to
withstand any of mother nature stresses
kids that are missing this very
important protein the muscles begin to
deteriorate even with simple activities
as getting up walking jumping for
instance it affects one in every 3,500
boys it's an equal opportunity disease
and that it knows no ethnic or
geographic boundaries it doesn't matter
what country you're from doesn't matter
what color your skin is one
3,500 boys throughout the world is born
with this disease the prognosis is
horrifying it's a hundred percent fatal
mmm the disease is rapidly progressive
and affects every muscle in a kid's body
their skeletal muscles the heart which
is a muscle and the muscles of
respiration by adolescence the kids are
wheelchair-bound and by their
mid-to-late 20s they die this is the
type of news that paralyzes most the
sadness the anger and the fear is enough
to stop anyone in their tracks for my
wife and I we were determined to push
through this mm and to save our son's
life in just four months after we
received the tragic news that our son
was diagnosed with Duchenne muscular
dystrophy we decided to start charlie's
fund a nonprofit organization that
invests in therapeutics development for
a therapy or a cure for Duchenne
muscular dystrophy our mission is simple
and crucial and we have never wavered
from it from the first day we started
our foundation we raise money and we
direct it into the hands of those that
we feel if the best shot on goal in
developing a therapy or a cure in time
to save my son Charlie's life and the
tens of thousands of boys who are
needlessly suffering from this disease
just like him we are in a race against
time my wife and I have been acutely
aware of this fact since day one and
unfortunately DMD was winning and
progress was simply not moving fast
enough for us there were no drugs and
there currently are no drugs available
for these kids to take in order to slow
the progress of the disease with the
exception of steroids which does very
little to slow the devastation and worse
it's associated with a host of terrible
terrible side effects so
bad in fact that many children are
simply not able to take the drug itself
we knew we had to do things differently
and we had to act quickly one thing that
was very apparent to me was that we
needed appropriate level of focus to be
devoted towards this problem in order to
make a difference in time for Charlie at
the time we hired the world's only PhD
levels scientists who devoted a hundred
percent of his efforts every single
waking moment to help us realize a
therapy or a cure for these boys it's
amazing to think of something so simple
as just devoting enough attention to a
disease is what's needed and yet no one
had done it before we did it another
thing that was acutely that my wife and
I were acutely aware of from the
beginning was the sense of urgency time
was not on our side the window of
opportunity was narrow one of the annual
meetings that my wife and I and all the
key opinion leaders in the field for
Duchenne muscular dystrophy one
scientist was speaking and his words
have always stuck with me he got up
there and he spoke to an audience of
several hundred people and he said
myself included there are many
scientists in this room who can cure
Duchenne muscular dystrophy in a mouse
it's time we move these drugs out of the
animal models and into the kids before
another generation is needlessly lost I
never forgot those words that evening
when I came home I said to my wife I
have an idea of what we're going to do
we're going to screen every fda-approved
drug in the country for other diseases
and we're going to develop tests to see
if there's any of these drugs that have
any benefit in Duchenne muscular
dystrophy
so we developed these assays which are
tests that are used to screen thousands
tens of thousands sometimes millions of
drugs in this case there was a finite
number of drugs there's approximately
four thousand FDA
prove drugs for other diseases just as I
expected we got very promising hits from
that screen and then we tested them in
the animal model for this disease some
of which showed great promise the
results of this innovative initiative
two clinical trials
one of which is currently taking place
at Johns Hopkins University the other is
taking place at Cincinnati Children's
Hospital both of which are working on
drugs that offer great promise in
improving the strength and function of
the skeletal muscles and the hearts of
these kids which means that there is a
good possibility that the quantity and
quality of these children's lives for
the first time in the history of this
disease is going to be markedly improved
something else that we wanted to do that
was needed and that would distinguish
ourselves from the rest of the people
and experts that were devoted to doing
something about this disease was taking
risks thinking outside the box being
innovative in the early few months after
we started charli's Fund I would
frantically scour the internet looking
for all of the most promising research
research that existed on this disease I
picked up the phone and I called every
scientist every clinician in every CEO
of a biotech company that was doing
anything that had to do with this
disease within months I came up with a
game plan with the help of my advisors
what we needed to do in this mining
through the multitude of possibilities I
came across this seed stage biotech
company in the Netherlands they had less
than 30 people at the time and they were
working on proprietary technology that
is something from Star Trek it's a type
of modified gene therapy that tricks the
muscles into once again making the
missing protein I spoke of earlier
called dystrophin although making it in
a shortened form with the hope that
maybe there's still enough function in
this protein that the kids quality of
life that
the the speed at which this muscle
destruction was taking place would slow
down we also did something that was
out-of-the-box and innovative most
nonprofits when they're providing funds
or support for research do so in the
form of a gift or sponsored research
agreements where they roll out their
funding incrementally with milestone
achievement we decided to do something
bigger
knowing that drug development is
expensive if these guys were on to
something exciting they were going to
need the money to demonstrate the proof
of concept so that enough value could be
built into this company that it would
turn the attention of big biotech and
Big Pharma the entities that have the
sufficient funds to take this promising
drug over the finish line
we made an equity investment of six
hundred fifty thousand dollars into this
company the first six hundred fifty
thousand dollars we raised went into
this company the result they're in a
phase-three clinical trial in Europe in
the United States in Canada and Asia and
currently it is the most promising
therapy in the world for Duchenne
muscular dystrophy because of our
supports and others who were willing to
take a risk in this company they have
now recently partnered with
GlaxoSmithKline the world's biggest
pharmaceutical company in the world for
a deal potentially worth over seven
hundred and twenty million dollars with
upfront and milestone achievements it's
amazing
what taking a risk an educated risk if
you will can turn out if this company
continues to be successful then
Charlie's fund will be successful
because of our equity investment the
return on our investment will be used to
refuel our efforts in other promising
therapeutic strategies and I can once
again place another educated bet
hopefully on the next biotech company
working on something for our children in
summary our unprecedented progress in
the short
I'm had less to do about this
groundbreaking scientific discovery and
more to do with having the confidence
and willingness to think outside the box
on November 11th 11 11 11 my son turned
11 this auspicious numerological
phenomenon occurs literally once every
10,000 years it's amazing I remember on
Charlie's birthday I looked at my wife
Tracy and I said to her
this is the year I'm going to deliver a
devastating blow to DMD and I want to
look back at this year with no regrets
it's easy to lose focus when you're
doing something like we're trying to
accomplish a Charlie's fun there's so
much at stake there are so many
possibilities there's no room for error
but moments like this are important and
it always goes back to our mission and
the one question are we doing everything
we can to move things as fast as
possible halo fujinon was a promising
drug that I remember reading in a
respected scientific journal that was
being tested in the animal model for
Duchenne muscular dystrophy a drug that
was known to venture capitalists and
scientists for other diseases that
involved abnormal fibrosis but the
venture capitalists lost faith after
spending 80 million dollars in this drug
but I knew that there was still great
promise in this drug for Duchenne
muscular dystrophy after speaking with
our scientific advisors the problem was
I didn't have the tools to figure out
how to get the drug and how to push it
forward so that it can potentially be
given as a medicine to my son and kids
like him I didn't turn my turn away from
this opportunity instead we once again
thought outside the box we decided to
recruit a team of drug development
Burt's people that represented the best
and brightest in Big Pharma and biotech
individuals with decades of experience
in making drugs we did this in order to
help us negotiate deals with the biotech
companies to help us establish clinical
trial networks with the key opinion
leaders and the medical institutions
that would be conducting the trials and
to help us communicate with the
regulatory authorities which is
essential like the FDA in the United
States and the EMEA which is the
equivalent regulatory body in Europe
incredibly in less than one year what
have we accomplished with this team we
acquired that promising drug from that
dormant Israeli company and we started
believe it or not our own biotech
company called halo therapeutics in
order to accelerate the development of
this promising drug that we now call HT
100 and best of all we are on track and
expect to begin a clinical trial this
year as a result of the great promise of
this drug and the expertise of the team
that I assembled recently the United
States and the European Union has
granted halo therapeutics orphan drug
status this distinction provides us with
the regulatory and financial incentives
to significantly compress the time and
cost to get drugs into clinical trial
and the marketplace again focusing on
the urgency because of our bold efforts
and the willingness and courage to take
matters into our own hands we have now
attracted the attention of the biotech
industry in fact the Wall Street Journal
has recently written an article about
the groundbreaking innovation of
Charlie's fund and halo therapeutics in
the world of drug development and
Norfolk diseases I'm a Harvard trained
physician who has an intimate
understanding of the language of genetic
medicine but my medical degree had
nothing to do with getting us to the
point of where we are right now
instead it's been focus
relentless determination and the courage
to innovate although for us the
motivation was the need to save my son's
life in reality these principles can be
applied to any challenge that seemed to
be insurmountable and it's these same
principles that will help us rewrite the
medical textbooks for this murderous
disease and help us finally make Duchene
history thank you
you